hi I'm Jan and I've had sleeping baby
dotnet since about 2000 when my son was
born and today I'm going to show you how
to make a sling without any sewing the
most important part of this is the rings
these are rings from sling rings com
they're manufactured specifically for
use in making baby slings um they're
pretty much the industry standard for
rings if you don't have time to order
from them you can run to the hardware
store and catch up some some rings
they're typically going to look like
this these are a lot heavier than the
sling rings but as long as they're
fairly thick and these are about quarter
of an inch thick they're generally going
to be safe you do want to watch out for
this weld well the drinks are fine as
long as they don't have a really sharp
burr on them because that's going to dig
into your fabric and I'm like tear it so
you can go to Home Depot or your local
hardware store and pick out some of
those just don't go to the craft store
and buy craft rings those are really
really thin they're not meant to be
weight bearing they are certainly not
going to hold the weight of your child
so just make sure that you have safe
rings when you do this and of course the
second thing that you need is some
fabric this is pashmina type shawl I
think it was bought on eBay but this
time of year in the fall you can find a
lot of these at you know any department
store you want it to be fairly sturdy
you can kind of see through this one but
it's still very strong it's not going to
tear easily just stay away from a really
lightweight stuff like gauze or you know
like an organza which you really see
through you don't want to use something
like that to carry your baby in any case
and certainly not for an Oso sling
either so I've got rings or two
different colors for clarity I'm going
to make it so that the pink one is the
one that's showing at the end just for
clarity so the first thing we're gonna
do let's take one end of the fabric and
I've got it sort of bunched up I'm gonna
put it through both rings and I've
already done this wrong I'm gonna put
through both rings and then like I'm
doing a ribbon belt I'm just gonna
thread it over this silver one and under
the pink one
so now I've got something that looks
like this and I think it's really like a
lot of videos won't show this but a
really good step is to make sure that
your fabric is spread out in the Rings
before you go any further if it's all
bunched up like this it's actually
forcing the Rings apart and that's gonna
make it more likely to slip and you
don't want it to slip especially when
you're wearing it with me so I'm just
going to find one edge and I'm gonna
kind of pull it out slowly so it doesn't
blur and then when I'm done see how
nicely that's kind of gathered through
like that I'm gonna take this piece that
I've got under here and you want that to
be between ten and twelve inches long
I'm just gonna pull that pretty snug a
nice little trick actually if you have a
thin enough fabric is to pull the longer
one through again that makes it very
tight you need larger rings for that but
that is absolutely not going anywhere I
find that too hard to deal with so I'm
gonna undo thread that part you would do
that if you had a very thin fabric like
more like a thin tablecloth which is
certainly fine to use for this thread my
whole thing when I was doing that so
let's do it again I don't usually make
videos and this little fluffy bit here
the shorter part that's the part that's
going to be against your shoulder when
you're wearing it so let's just do that
now I'm gonna bring this around and I
just want to make sure you can do this
in a mirror I want to make sure that the
flappy that is completely under the
longer bit
and that will both hide the flappy bit
and make it a little bit more patted on
your shoulder and keep it secure so the
next thing I want to do see my baby
writing t-shirt I need to make sure that
it's not twisted on the back so I'm
holding onto the top rail right now
that's the top edge I'm gonna bring that
around from the back and then just bring
this up again through both rings just
like we did the first time and again
I've got my top edge here and making
sure that my top edge stays on top when
I thread it through this bottom ring so
again I'm going over this top one and
under the bottom one this whole tail
through now you can see where the length
of the fabric can be an issue if you're
not small or petite I'm ending up with a
very very short tail it would be safe as
long as I'm keeping an eye on it I just
want to make sure that it doesn't slip
out while I'm wearing my baby so here it
is threaded and spread out on this ring
so it's not put on my shoulder and this
is the same way that you would wear an
infant in a nice thing I've got this
thing fairly tight this is a pretty it's
a it's a material with a lot of give as
we say in the industry it has a lot of
horizontal out of diagonal sort of
stretch to it it's not actually stretchy
but it'll give it that diagonal
direction so I'm just gonna slide her
into the pouch of my sling and her legs
are inside and they're kind of I've got
a little bit of a ledge of fabric
underneath her legs to keep her from
falling out although if it's threaded
well she's not gonna and then I've got a
little bit of slack here on the top I'm
just gonna pull that around from my back
and then pull on that upper rail until
she's really snug against me this is the
look that I like best for newborns there
nice and clustered neck if you were
carrying a baby in your arms this is the
way you would have them they'd be nice
and close like on your chin you can feel
them breathing you can see their face
the thing that you don't want is a
really slumpy baby like hidden down in
here with their head squished forward
that's something you don't want when
you're carrying a baby when they're in a
car seat and especially wouldn't a sling
so hopefully that there's something and
there's more finished thing if I were a
size two I would have a much longer tail
here but even with a 72 inch piece of
fabric this is plenty to have a safe
okay thanks